#
# = Fast Fourier Transforms
# Contents:
# 1. {Mathematical Definitions}[link:rdoc/fft_rdoc.html#1]
# 1. {Complex data FFTs}[link:rdoc/fft_rdoc.html#2]
#    1. {Overview of complex data FFTs}[link:rdoc/fft_rdoc.html#2.1]
#    1. {Radix-2 FFT routines for complex data}[link:rdoc/fft_rdoc.html#2.2]
#       1. {Example of the complex Radix-2 FFT}[link:rdoc/fft_rdoc.html#2.2.1]
#    1. {Mixed-radix FFT routines for complex data}[link:rdoc/fft_rdoc.html#2.3]
#       1. {GSL::FFT::ComplexWavetable class}[link:rdoc/fft_rdoc.html#2.3.1]
#       1. {GSL::FFT::ComplexWorkspace class}[link:rdoc/fft_rdoc.html#2.3.2]
#       1. {Methods to compute the transform}[link:rdoc/fft_rdoc.html#2.3.3]
#       1. {Example of the mixed-radix FFT}[link:rdoc/fft_rdoc.html#2.3.4]
# 1. {Real data FFTs}[link:rdoc/fft_rdoc.html#3]
#    1. {Overview of real data FFTs}[link:rdoc/fft_rdoc.html#3.1]
#    1. {Radix-2 FFT routines for real data}[link:rdoc/fft_rdoc.html#3.2]
#    1. {Mixed-radix FFT routines for real data}[link:rdoc/fft_rdoc.html#3.3]
#       1. {Data storage scheme}[link:rdoc/fft_rdoc.html#3.3.1]
#       1. {Wavetable and Workspace classes}[link:rdoc/fft_rdoc.html#3.3.2]
#       1. {Methods for real FFTs}[link:rdoc/fft_rdoc.html#3.3.3]
#       1. {Examples}[link:rdoc/fft_rdoc.html#3.3.4]
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="1] Mathematical Definitions 
# Fast Fourier Transforms are efficient algorithms for calculating the discrete 
# fourier transform (DFT), 
#
# The DFT usually arises as an approximation to the continuous fourier transform 
# when functions are sampled at discrete intervals in space or time. 
# The naive evaluation of the discrete fourier transform is a matrix-vector 
# multiplication W\vec{z}. A general matrix-vector multiplication takes O(N^2) 
# operations for N data-points. Fast fourier transform algorithms use a 
# divide-and-conquer strategy to factorize the matrix W into smaller 
# sub-matrices, corresponding to the integer factors of the length N. 
# If N can be factorized into a product of integers f_1 f_2 ... f_n then the 
# DFT can be computed in O(N \sum f_i) operations. For a radix-2 FFT this 
# gives an operation count of O(N \log_2 N). 
#
# All the FFT functions offer three types of transform: forwards, inverse and
# backwards, based on the same mathematical definitions. The definition of the 
# forward fourier transform, x = FFT(z), is, and the definition of the inverse 
# fourier transform, x = IFFT(z), is, The factor of 1/N makes this a true 
# inverse. For example, a call to gsl_fft_complex_forward followed by a call 
# to gsl_fft_complex_inverse should return the original data (within numerical 
# errors). 
#
# In general there are two possible choices for the sign of the exponential 
# in the transform/ inverse-transform pair. GSL follows the same convention as
# FFTPACK, using a negative exponential for the forward transform. 
# The advantage of this convention is that the inverse transform recreates 
# the original function with simple fourier synthesis. Numerical Recipes uses 
# the opposite convention, a positive exponential in the forward transform. 
#
# The backwards FFT is simply our terminology for an unscaled version of the 
# inverse FFT, When the overall scale of the result is unimportant it is often 
# convenient to use the backwards FFT instead of the inverse to save unnecessary
# divisions. 
#
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="2] Complex data FFTs
# === {}[link:index.html"name="2.1] Overview of complex data FFTs
# The complex data FFT routines are provided as instance methods of
# {GSL::Vector::Complex}[link:rdoc/vector_complex_rdoc.html].
#
# Here is a table which shows the layout of the array data, and the correspondence 
# between the time-domain complex data z, and the frequency-domain complex data x.
#
#         index    z               x = FFT(z)
#
#         0        z(t = 0)        x(f = 0)
#         1        z(t = 1)        x(f = 1/(N Delta))
#         2        z(t = 2)        x(f = 2/(N Delta))
#         .        ........        ..................
#         N/2      z(t = N/2)      x(f = +1/(2 Delta),
#                                        -1/(2 Delta))
#         .        ........        ..................
#         N-3      z(t = N-3)      x(f = -3/(N Delta))
#         N-2      z(t = N-2)      x(f = -2/(N Delta))
#         N-1      z(t = N-1)      x(f = -1/(N Delta))
#
#
# When N is even the location N/2 contains the most positive and negative
# frequencies +1/(2 Delta), -1/(2 Delta) which are equivalent. If N is odd then
# general structure of the table above still applies, but N/2 does not appear.
#
# {GSL::Vector::Complex}[link:rdoc/vector_complex_rdoc.html] provides four methods for
# shifting the frequency domain data between <b>FFT order</b>, shown in the table
# above, and <b>natural order</b>, which has the most negative freqeuncy component
# first, the zero frequency component in the middle, and the most positive
# frequency component last.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#fftshift
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#fftshift!
#
#   Shifts the data of <tt>self</tt> from FFT order to natural order.  The
#   <tt>#fftshift</tt> method leaves <tt>self</tt> unmodified and returns a new
#   <tt>GSL::Vector::Complex</tt> object containing the shifted data.  The
#   <tt>#fftshift!</tt> method modifies <tt>self</tt> in-place and returns
#   <tt>self</tt>.  Note that <tt>#fftshift</tt> and <tt>#ifftshift</tt> are equivalent
#   for even lengths, but not for odd lengths.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#ifftshift
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#ifftshift!
#
#   Shifts the data of <tt>self</tt> from natural order to FFT order.  The
#   <tt>#ifftshift</tt> method leaves <tt>self</tt> unmodified and returns a new
#   <tt>GSL::Vector::Complex</tt> object containing the shifted data.  The
#   <tt>#ifftshift!</tt> method modifies <tt>self</tt> in-place and returns
#   <tt>self</tt>.  Note that <tt>#fftshift</tt> and <tt>#ifftshift</tt> are equivalent
#   for even lengths, but not for odd lengths.
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="2.2] Radix-2 FFT routines for complex data
# The radix-2 algorithms are simple and compact, although not necessarily the 
# most efficient. They use the Cooley-Tukey algorithm to compute complex 
# FFTs for lengths which are a power of 2 -- no additional storage is required. 
# The corresponding self-sorting mixed-radix routines offer better performance 
# at the expense of requiring additional working space.
#
# <b>The FFT methods described below return FFTed data, and the input vector is 
# not changed. Use methods with '!' as <tt>tranform!</tt> for in-place transform.</b>
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#radix2_forward
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#radix2_backward
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#radix2_inverse
#
#
#   These functions compute forward, backward and inverse FFTs of the complex
#   vector using a radix-2 decimation-in-time algorithm.  The length of the
#   transform is restricted to powers of two.  These methods return the FFTed
#   data, and the input data is not changed.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#radix2_transform(sign)
#
#
#   The sign argument can be either <tt>GSL::FFT::FORWARD</tt> or <tt>GSL::FFT::BACKWARD</tt>.
#   
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#radix2_dif_forward
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#radix2_dif_backward
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#radix2_dif_inverse
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#radix2_dif_transform
#
#
#   These are decimation-in-frequency versions of the radix-2 FFT functions.
#
# ==== {}[link:index.html"name="2.2.1] Example of complex Radix-2 FFT
# Here is an example program which computes the FFT of a short pulse in a 
# sample of length  128. To make the resulting Fourier transform real the pulse 
# is defined for equal positive and negative times (-10 ... 10), where the 
# negative times wrap around the end of the array.
#
#         require("gsl")
#         include GSL
#
#         n = 128
#         data = Vector::Complex[n]
#
#         data[0] = 1.0
#         for i in 1..10 do
#           data[i] = 1.0
#           data[n-i] = 1.0
#         end
#
#         #for i in 0...n do
#         #  printf("%d %e %e\n", i, data[i].re, data[i].im)
#         #end
#
#         # You can choose whichever you like
#         #ffted = data.radix2_forward()
#         ffted = data.radix2_transform(FFT::FORWARD)
#         ffted /= Math::sqrt(n)
#         for i in 0...n do
#           printf("%d %e %e\n", i, ffted[i].re, ffted[i].im)
#         end
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="2.3] Mixed-radix FFT routines for complex data
#
# ==== {}[link:index.html"name="2.3.1] GSL::FFT::ComplexWavetable class
# ---
# * GSL::FFT::ComplexWavetable.alloc(n)
#
#
#   This method prepares a trigonometric lookup table for a complex FFT of length <tt>n</tt>.
#   The length <tt>n</tt> is factorized into a product of subtransforms, and the factors and their 
#   trigonometric coefficients are stored in the wavetable. The trigonometric coefficients are 
#   computed using direct calls to sin and cos, for accuracy. Recursion relations could be used 
#   to compute the lookup table faster, but if an application performs many FFTs of the same 
#   length then this computation is a one-off overhead which does not affect the final 
#   throughput.
#
#   The <tt>Wavetable</tt> object can be used repeatedly for any transform of the same length.
#   The table is not modified by calls to any of the other FFT functions. The same wavetable 
#   can be used for both forward and backward (or inverse) transforms of a given length.
#
# ---
# * GSL::FFT::ComplexWavetable#n
# * GSL::FFT::ComplexWavetable#nf
# * GSL::FFT::ComplexWavetable#factor
#
#
# ==== {}[link:index.html"name="2.3.2] GSL::FFT::ComplexWorkspace class
# ---
# * GSL::FFT::ComplexWorkspace.alloc(n)
#
#
#   Creates a workspace for a complex transform of length <tt>n</tt>.
#
# ==== {}[link:index.html"name="2.3.3] Methods to compute transform
# <b>The FFT methods described below return FFTed data, and the input vector is not changed. Use methods with '!' as <tt>tranform!</tt> for in-place transform.</b>
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#forward(table, work)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#forward(table)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#forward(work)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#forward()
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#backward(arguments same as forward)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#inverse(arguments same as forward)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#transform(arguments same as forward, sign)
#
#
#   These methods compute forward, backward and inverse FFTs of the complex
#   vector <tt>self</tt>, using a mixed radix decimation-in-frequency algorithm.
#   There is no restriction on the length.  Efficient modules are provided for
#   subtransforms of length 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7.  Any remaining factors are
#   computed with a slow, O(n^2), general-n module.
#   
#   The caller can supply a <tt>table</tt> containing the trigonometric lookup
#   tables and a workspace <tt>work</tt> (they are optional).
#   
#   The sign argument for the method <tt>transform</tt> can be either
#   <tt>GSL::FFT::FORWARD</tt> or <tt>GSL::FFT::BACKWARD</tt>.
#
#   These methods return the FFTed data, and the input data is not changed.
#
# ==== {}[link:index.html"name="2.3.4] Example to use the mixed-radix FFT algorithm
#       require 'gsl'
#       include GSL
#
#       n = 630
#       data = FFT::Vector::Complex[n]
#
#       table = FFT::ComplexWavetable.alloc(n)
#       space = FFT::ComplexWorkspace.alloc(n)
#
#       data[0] = 1.0
#       for i in 1..10 do
#         data[i] = 1.0
#       end
#
#       ffted = data.forward(table, space)
#       #ffted = data.forward()
#       #ffted = data.transform(FFT:Forward)
#
#       ffted /= Math::sqrt(n)
#       for i in 0...n do
#         printf("%d %e %e\n", i, data[i].re, data[i].im)
#       end
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="3] Real data FFTs
# === {}[link:index.html"name="3.1] Overview of real data FFTs 
#
# The functions for real data FFTs are provided as instance methods of
# {GSL::Vector}[link:rdoc/vector.class].  While they are similar to those for
# complex data, there is an important difference in the data storage layout
# between forward and inverse transforms.  The Fourier transform of a real
# sequence is not real. It is a complex sequence with a special symmetry.  A
# sequence with this symmetry is called <tt>conjugate-complex</tt> or
# <tt>half-complex</tt> and requires only as much storage as the original real
# sequence instead of twice as much.
#
# Forward transforms of real sequences produce half complex sequences of the same
# length.  Backward and inverse transforms of half complex sequences produce real
# sequences of the same length.  In both cases, the input and output sequences
# are instances of {GSL::Vector}[link:rdoc/vector_rdoc.html].
#
# The precise storage arrangements of half complex seqeunces depend on the
# algorithm, and are different for radix-2 and mixed-radix routines. The radix-2
# functions operate in-place, which constrains the locations where each element
# can be stored. The restriction forces real and imaginary parts to be stored far
# apart.  The mixed-radix algorithm does not have this restriction, and it stores
# the real and imaginary parts of a given term in neighboring locations (which is
# desirable for better locality of memory accesses).  This means that a half
# complex sequence produces by a radix-2 forward transform <b>cannot</b> be
# recovered by a mixed-radix inverse transform (and vice versa).
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="3.2] Radix-2 FFT routines for real data
# The routines for readix-2 real FFTs are provided as instance methods of
# {GSL::Vector}[link:rdoc/vector_rdoc.html].
#
# <b>The FFT methods described below return FFTed data, and the input vector is
# not changed. Use methods with '!' as <tt>radix2_tranform!</tt> for in-place
# transform.</b>
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector#real_radix2_transform
# * GSL::Vector#radix2_transform
# * GSL::Vector#real_radix2_forward
# * GSL::Vector#radix2_forward
#
#
#   These methods compute a radix-2 FFT of the real vector <tt>self</tt>.  The
#   output is a half-complex sequence.  The arrangement of the half-complex
#   terms uses the following scheme: for k < N/2 the real part of the k-th term
#   is stored in location k, and the corresponding imaginary part is stored in
#   location N-k. Terms with k > N/2 can be reconstructed using the symmetry
#   z_k = z^*_{N-k}. The terms for k=0 and k=N/2 are both purely real,  and
#   count as a special case. Their real parts are stored in locations 0 and N/2
#   respectively, while their imaginary parts which are zero are not stored.
#
#   These methods return the FFTed data, and the input data is not changed.
#
#   The following table shows the correspondence between the output <tt>self</tt> 
#   and the equivalent results obtained by considering the input data as a 
#   complex sequence with zero imaginary part,
#
#         complex[0].real    =    self[0] 
#         complex[0].imag    =    0 
#         complex[1].real    =    self[1] 
#         complex[1].imag    =    self[N-1]
#             ...............         ................
#         complex[k].real    =    self[k]
#         complex[k].imag    =    self[N-k] 
#             ...............         ................
#         complex[N/2].real  =    self[N/2]
#         complex[N/2].real  =    0
#             ...............         ................
#         complex[k'].real   =    self[k]        k' = N - k
#         complex[k'].imag   =   -self[N-k] 
#             ...............         ................
#         complex[N-1].real  =    self[1]
#         complex[N-1].imag  =   -self[N-1]
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector#halfcomplex_radix2_inverse
# * GSL::Vector#radix2_inverse
# * GSL::Vector#halfcomplex_radix2_backward
# * GSL::Vector#radix2_backward
#
#
#   These methods compute the inverse or backwards radix-2 FFT of the
#   half-complex sequence data stored according the output scheme used by
#   gsl_fft_real_radix2.  The result is a real array stored in natural order.
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="4] Mixed-radix FFT routines for real data
#
# This section describes mixed-radix FFT algorithms for real data. 
# The mixed-radix functions work for FFTs of any length. They are a 
# reimplementation of the real-FFT routines in the Fortran FFTPACK library 
# by Paul Swarztrauber. 
# The theory behind the algorithm is explained in the article 
# <tt>Fast Mixed-Radix Real Fourier Transforms</tt> by Clive Temperton. 
# The routines here use the same indexing scheme and basic algorithms as 
# FFTPACK. 
#
# The functions use the FFTPACK storage convention for half-complex sequences.
# In this convention the half-complex transform of a real sequence is stored with
# frequencies in increasing order, starting at zero, with the real and imaginary
# parts of each frequency in neighboring locations. When a value is known to be
# real the imaginary part is not stored. The imaginary part of the zero-frequency
# component is never stored. It is known to be zero since the zero frequency
# component is simply the sum of the input data (all real). For a sequence of
# even length the imaginary part of the frequency n/2 is not stored either, since
# the symmetry z_k = z_{N-k}^* implies that this is purely real too. 
#
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="4.1] Data storage scheme
#
# The storage scheme is best shown by some examples. 
# The table below shows the output for an odd-length sequence, n=5. 
# The two columns give the correspondence between the 5 values in the 
# half-complex sequence computed <tt>real_transform</tt>, <tt>halfcomplex[]</tt> 
# and the values <tt>complex[]</tt> that would be returned if the same real input 
# sequence were passed to <tt>complex_backward</tt> as a complex sequence 
# (with imaginary parts set to 0),
#
#      complex[0].real  =  halfcomplex[0] 
#      complex[0].imag  =  0
#      complex[1].real  =  halfcomplex[1] 
#      complex[1].imag  =  halfcomplex[2]
#      complex[2].real  =  halfcomplex[3]
#      complex[2].imag  =  halfcomplex[4]
#      complex[3].real  =  halfcomplex[3]
#      complex[3].imag  = -halfcomplex[4]
#      complex[4].real  =  halfcomplex[1]
#      complex[4].imag  = -halfcomplex[2]
#
# The upper elements of the <tt>complex</tt> array, <tt>complex[3]</tt> and <tt>complex[4]</tt>
# are filled in using the symmetry condition. The imaginary part of 
# the zero-frequency term <tt>complex[0].imag</tt> is known to be zero by the symmetry.
#
# The next table shows the output for an even-length sequence, 
# n=5 In the even case there are two values which are purely real,
#
#      complex[0].real  =  halfcomplex[0]
#      complex[0].imag  =  0
#      complex[1].real  =  halfcomplex[1] 
#      complex[1].imag  =  halfcomplex[2] 
#      complex[2].real  =  halfcomplex[3] 
#      complex[2].imag  =  halfcomplex[4] 
#      complex[3].real  =  halfcomplex[5] 
#      complex[3].imag  =  0 
#      complex[4].real  =  halfcomplex[3] 
#      complex[4].imag  = -halfcomplex[4]
#      complex[5].real  =  halfcomplex[1] 
#      complex[5].imag  = -halfcomplex[2] 
#
# The upper elements of the <tt>complex</tt> array, <tt>complex[4]</tt> 
# and <tt>complex[5]</tt> are filled in using the symmetry condition. 
# Both <tt>complex[0].imag</tt> and <tt>complex[3].imag</tt> are known to be zero.
#
# ==== {}[link:index.html"name="4.1.1] Wavetable and Workspace classes
# ---
# * GSL::FFT::RealWavetable.alloc(n)
# * GSL::FFT::HalfComplexWavetable.alloc(n)
#
#
#   These methods create trigonometric lookup tables for an FFT of size <tt>n</tt> 
#   real elements. The length <tt>n</tt> is factorized into a product of subtransforms, 
#   and the factors and their trigonometric coefficients are stored in the wavetable.
#   The trigonometric coefficients are computed using direct calls to sin and cos, 
#   for accuracy. Recursion relations could be used to compute the lookup table 
#   faster, but if an application performs many FFTs of the same length then 
#   computing the wavetable is a one-off overhead which does not affect the final 
#   throughput.
#
#   The wavetable structure can be used repeatedly for any transform of the same 
#   length. The table is not modified by calls to any of the other FFT functions. 
#   The appropriate type of wavetable must be used for forward real or inverse
#   half-complex transforms.
#
# ---
# * GSL::FFT::RealWorkspace.alloc(n)
#
#
#   This method creates a workspace object for a real transform of length
#   <tt>n</tt>.  The same workspace can be used for both forward real and inverse
#   halfcomplex transforms.
#
# ==== {}[link:index.html"name="4.1.2] Methods for mixed-radix real FFTs
#
# <b>The FFT methods described below return FFTed data, and the input vector is not changed. Use methods with '!' as <tt>real_tranform!</tt> for in-place transform.</b>
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector#real_transform(table, work)
# * GSL::Vector#halfcomplex_transform(table, work)
# * GSL::Vector#fft
#
#
#   These methods compute the FFT of <tt>self</tt>, a real or half-complex array,
#   using a mixed radix decimation-in-frequency algorithm.  For
#   <tt>real_transform</tt> <tt>self</tt> is an array of time-ordered real data.  For
#   <tt>halfcomplex_transform</tt> <tt>self</tt> contains Fourier coefficients in the
#   half-complex ordering described above. There is no restriction on the
#   length <tt>n</tt>. 
#
#   Efficient modules are provided for subtransforms of length 2, 3, 4 and 5. 
#   Any remaining factors are computed with a slow, O(n^2), general-n module. 
#
#   The caller can supply a <tt>table</tt> containing trigonometric lookup tables 
#   and a workspace <tt>work</tt> (optional).
#
#   These methods return the FFTed data, and the input data is not changed.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector#halfcomplex_inverse(table, work)
# * GSL::Vector#halfcomplex_backward(table, work)
# * GSL::Vector#ifft
#
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="5] Examples
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="5.1] Example 1
#
#     #!/usr/bin/env ruby
#     require("gsl")
#     include GSL
#
#     N = 2048
#     SAMPLING = 1000   # 1 kHz
#     TMAX = 1.0/SAMPLING*N
#     FREQ1 = 50
#     FREQ2 = 120
#     t = Vector.linspace(0, TMAX, N)
#     x = Sf::sin(2*M_PI*FREQ1*t) + Sf::sin(2*M_PI*FREQ2*t)
#     y = x.fft
#
#     y2 = y.subvector(1, N-2).to_complex2
#     mag = y2.abs
#     phase = y2.arg
#     f = Vector.linspace(0, SAMPLING/2, mag.size)
#     graph(f, mag, "-C -g 3 -x 0 200 -X 'Frequency [Hz]'")
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="5.2] Example 2
#     #!/usr/bin/env ruby
#     require("gsl")
#     include GSL
#
#     n = 100
#     data = Vector.alloc(n)
#
#     for i in (n/3)...(2*n/3) do
#       data[i] = 1.0
#     end
#
#     rtable = FFT::RealWavetable.alloc(n)
#     rwork = FFT::RealWorkspace.alloc(n)
#   
#     #ffted = data.real_transform(rtable, rwork)
#     #ffted = data.real_transform(rtable)
#     #ffted = data.real_transform(rwork)
#     #ffted = data.real_transform()
#     ffted = data.fft
#
#     for i in 11...n do
#       ffted[i] = 0.0
#     end
#   
#     hctable = FFT::HalfComplexWavetable.alloc(n)
#   
#     #data2 = ffted.halfcomplex_inverse(hctable, rwork)
#     #data2 = ffted.halfcomplex_inverse()
#     data2 = ffted.ifft
#
#     graph(nil, data, data2, "-T X -C -g 3 -L 'Real-halfcomplex' -x 0 #{data.size}")
#
# {prev}[link:rdoc/eigen_rdoc.html]
# {next}[link:rdoc/wavelet_rdoc.html]
#
# {Reference index}[link:rdoc/ref_rdoc.html]
# {top}[link:index.html]
#
#
