#
# = Ruby/GSL
#
# Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License.
#
# == {}[link:files/index_rdoc.html"name="1] Description
# {RubyGSL}[http://rubyforge.org/projects/rb-gsl/"target="_top] is a ruby interface to the {GSL}[http://www.gnu.org/software/gsl/"target="_top] (GNU Scientific Library), for numerical computing with {Ruby}[http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/"target="_top]. 
#
# #Ruby/GSL is developed with Ruby 1.8.3 and GSL 1.7 on 
# #{MacOS X}[http://www.apple.com/macosx/overview/"target="_top] 10.3.7 (Darwin 7.7.0).
# #This also runs under Linux, and {Cygwin}[http://cygwin.com/"target="_top].
#
# == {}[link:files/index_rdoc.html"name="2] Download
#   * {RubyForge}[http://rubyforge.org/frs/?group_id=285"target="_top]
#
# == {}[link:files/index_rdoc.html"name="3] Installation
# === {}[link:files/index_rdoc.html"name="3.1] Using the gem command
# RubyGSL may now be installed as a Ruby Gem by simply running <tt>gem install
# gsl</tt>.  Note that the GSL libraries must already be installed before RubyGSL
# can be installed.
#
# === {}[link:files/index_rdoc.html"name="3.2] Using the setup.rb command
# If you prefer, RubyGSL may still be installed using setup.rb.
# 1. Get and install {GSL}[http://www.gnu.org/software/gsl/#downloading"target="_top]. Make sure the command "gsl-config" is in command search path.
# 1. {Download}[http://rubyforge.org/frs/?group_id=285"target="_top] Ruby/GSL, ungzip and untar the archive <tt>rb-gsl-xxx.tar.gz</tt>. 
# 1. <tt> % cd rb-gsl-xxx/</tt>
# 1. <tt> % ruby setup.rb config</tt>
# 1. <tt> % ruby setup.rb setup</tt>
# 1. <tt> % ruby setup.rb install</tt> (as root)
#
#   * It is recommended to install the
#     {<tt>GNU plotutils</tt>}[http://www.gnu.org/software/plotutils/plotutils.html"target="_top]
#     package.
#     Some of the example scripts in the 'examples/' directory use the <tt>graph</tt> 
#     utility included in the package to plot the results. 
#     Windows-cygwin binaries of <tt>GNU plotutils</tt> and 
#     related packages are available from 
#     {here}[http://rustam.uwp.edu/support"target="_top].
#
# == {}[link:files/index_rdoc.html"name="4] {Screenshot}[link:files/screenshot_rdoc.html]
#
# == {}[link:files/index_rdoc.html"name="5] {Reference}[link:files/ref_rdoc.html]
#
# == {}[link:files/index_rdoc.html"name="6] Examples
# See scripts in <tt>examples/</tt> and <tt>tests/</tt> directories.
#
# == {}[link:files/index_rdoc.html"name="7] Related Projects
# * {ruby-gsl:}[http://ruby-gsl.sourceforge.net/"target="_top]
#   Another Ruby biding, developed by Arno Erpenbeck.
#
# == {}[link:files/index_rdoc.html"name="8] Licence
# Ruby/GSL is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the terms of the GNU General Public License.
# This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
# WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY.
#
# == {}[link:files/index_rdoc.html"name="9] Bug Report
# If you encounter bugs in Ruby/GSL, please e-mail to me, or
# submit reports from {RubyForge page}[http://rubyforge.org/projects/rb-gsl/"target="_top].
#
# == {}[link:files/index_rdoc.html"name="10] Author
# Yoshiki Tsunesada
#
# Jul/2004
#
# This document is generated with ((<RDTool|RAA:RDTool>)).
#
#
#
