#
# = Multidimensional Root-Finding
# This chapter describes functions for multidimensional root-finding
# (solving nonlinear systems with n equations in n unknowns).
# The library provides low level components for a variety of iterative solvers
# and convergence tests. These can be combined by the user to achieve the
# desired solution, with full access to the intermediate steps of the iteration.
# Each class of methods uses the same framework, so that you can switch between
# solvers at runtime without needing to recompile your program. Each instance of
# a solver keeps track of its own state, allowing the solvers to be used in
# multi-threaded programs.
#
# 1. {Overview}[link:rdoc/multiroot_rdoc.html#1]
# 1. {Initializing the Solver}[link:rdoc/multiroot_rdoc.html#2]
# 1. {Providing the function to solve}[link:rdoc/multiroot_rdoc.html#3]
# 1. {Iteration}[link:rdoc/multiroot_rdoc.html#4]
# 1. {Search Stopping Parameters}[link:rdoc/multiroot_rdoc.html#5]
# 1. {Higher Level Interface}[link:rdoc/multiroot_rdoc.html#6]
# 1. {Examples}[link:rdoc/multiroot_rdoc.html#7]
#    1. {FSolver}[link:rdoc/multiroot_rdoc.html#7.1]
#    1. {FdfSolver}[link:rdoc/multiroot_rdoc.html#7.2]
#
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="1] Overview
# The problem of multidimensional root finding requires the simultaneous
# solution of n equations, f_i, in n variables, x_i, In general there are no
# bracketing methods available for n dimensional systems, and no way of knowing
# whether any solutions exist. All algorithms proceed from an initial guess
# using a variant of the Newton iteration, where x, f are vector quantities and
# J is the Jacobian matrix J_{ij} = d f_i / d x_j. Additional strategies can be
# used to enlarge the region of convergence. These include requiring a decrease
# in the norm |f| on each step proposed by Newton's method, or taking
# steepest-descent steps in the direction of the negative gradient of |f|.
#
# Several root-finding algorithms are available within a single framework.
# The user provides a high-level driver for the algorithms, and the library
# provides the individual functions necessary for each of the steps. There are
# three main phases of the iteration. The steps are,
#
# * initialize solver state, <tt>s</tt>, for algorithm <tt>T</tt>
# * update <tt>s</tt> using the iteration <tt>T</tt>
# * test <tt>s</tt> for convergence, and repeat iteration if necessary
#
# The evaluation of the Jacobian matrix can be problematic, either because
# programming the derivatives is intractable or because computation of the n^2
# terms of the matrix becomes too expensive. For these reasons the algorithms
# provided by the library are divided into two classes according to whether
# the derivatives are available or not.
#
# The state for solvers with an analytic Jacobian matrix is held in a
# <tt>GSL::MultiRoot::FdfSolver</tt> object. The updating procedure requires both
# the function and its derivatives to be supplied by the user.
#
# The state for solvers which do not use an analytic Jacobian matrix is held in
# a <tt>GSL::MultiRoot::FSolver</tt> object. The updating procedure uses only
# function evaluations (not derivatives). The algorithms estimate the matrix J
# or J^{-1} by approximate methods.
#
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="2] Initializing the Solver
# Two types of solvers are available. The solver itself depends only on the
# dimension of the problem and the algorithm and can be reused for different problems.
# The <tt>FdfSolver</tt> requires derivatives of the function to solve.
#
# ---
# * GSL::MultiRoot::FSolver.alloc(T, n)
#
#   This creates an instance of the <tt>FSolver</tt> class of type <tt>T</tt>
#   for a system of <tt>n</tt> dimensions. The type is given by a constant or a string,
#   * GSL::MultiRoot:FSolver::HYBRIDS, or "hybrids"
#   * GSL::MultiRoot:FSolver::HYBRID, or "hybrid"
#   * GSL::MultiRoot:FSolver::DNEWTON, or "dnewton"
#   * GSL::MultiRoot:FSolver::BROYDEN, or "broyden"
#
# ---
# * GSL::MultiRoot::FdfSolver.alloc(T, n)
#
#   This creates an instance of the <tt>FdfSolver</tt> class of type <tt>T</tt>
#   for a system of <tt>n</tt> dimensions. The type is given by a constant,
#   * GSL::MultiRoot:FdfSolver::HYBRIDSJ, or "hybridsj"
#   * GSL::MultiRoot:FdfSolver::HYBRIDJ, or "hybridj",
#   * GSL::MultiRoot:FdfSolver::NEWTON, or "newton",
#   * GSL::MultiRoot:FdfSolver::GNEWTON, or "gnewton
#
# ---
# * GSL::MultiRoot::FSolver#set(func, x)
#
#   This method sets, or resets, an existing solver <tt>self</tt>
#   to use the function <tt>func</tt> and the initial guess <tt>x</tt>.
#   Here <tt>x</tt> is a <tt>Vector</tt>, and <tt>func</tt>
#   is a <tt>MultiRoot:Function</tt> object.
# ---
# * GSL::MultiRoot::FdfSolver#set(func_fdf, x)
#
#   This method sets, or resets, an existing solver <tt>self</tt>
#   to use the function <tt>func_fdf</tt> and the initial guess <tt>x</tt>.
#   Here <tt>x</tt> is a <tt>Vector</tt>, and <tt>func_fdf</tt>
#   is a <tt>MultiRoot:Function_fdf</tt> object.
#
# ---
# * GSL::MultiRoot::FSolver#name
# * GSL::MultiRoot::FdfSolver#name
#
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="3] Providing the function to solve
# ---
# * GSL::MultiRoot:Function.alloc(proc, dim, params)
#
#   See example below:
#
#     # x: vector, current guess
#     # params: a scalar or an array
#     # f: vector, function value
#     proc = Proc.new { |x, params, f|
#       a = params[0]; b = params[1]
#       x0 = x[0]; x1 = x[1]
#       f[0] = a*(1 - x0)
#       f[1] = b*(x1 - x0*x0)
#     }
#
#     params = [1.0, 10.0]
#     func = MultiRoot::Function.alloc(proc, 2, params)
#     fsolver = MultiRoot::FSolver.alloc("broyden", 2)
#     x = [-10, -5]    # initial guess
#     fsolver.set(func, x)
#
# ---
# * GSL::MultiRoot:Function_fdf.alloc(proc, dim, params)
#
#   See the example below:
#
#     procf = Proc.new { |x, params, f|
#       a = params[0]; b = params[1]
#       x0 = x[0]; x1 = x[1]
#       f[0] = a*(1 - x0)
#       f[1] = b*(x1 - x0*x0)
#     }
#
#     procdf = Proc.new { |x, params, jac|
#       a = params[0]; b = params[1]
#       jac.set(0, 0, -a)
#       jac.set(0, 1, 0)
#       jac.set(1, 0, -2*b*x[0])
#       jac.set(1, 1, b)
#     }
#
#     params = [1.0, 10.0]
#     func_fdf = MultiRoot::Function_fdf.alloc(procf, procdf, n, params)
#
#     fdfsolver = MultiRoot::FdfSolver.alloc("gnewton", n)
#     x = [-10.0, -5.0]
#     fdfsolver.set(func_fdf, x)
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="4] Iteration
# ---
# * GSL::MultiRoot::FSolver#interate
# * GSL::MultiRoot::FdfSolver#interate
#
#   These methods perform a single iteration of the solver <tt>self</tt>.
#   If the iteration encounters an unexpected problem then an error code will
#   be returned,
#   * GSL_EBADFUNC: the iteration encountered a singular point where the function
#     or its derivative evaluated to Inf or NaN.
#   * GSL_ENOPROG: the iteration is not making any progress, preventing the
#     algorithm from continuing.
#   The solver maintains a current best estimate of the root at all times.
#   This information can be accessed with the following auxiliary methods.
#
# ---
# * GSL::MultiRoot::FSolver#root
# * GSL::MultiRoot::FdfSolver#root
#
#   These methods return the current estimate of the root (Vector) for the solver <tt>self</tt>.
#
# ---
# * GSL::MultiRoot::FSolver#f
# * GSL::MultiRoot::FdfSolver#f
#
#   These methds return the function value <tt>f(x)</tt> (Vector) at the current estimate
#   of the root for the solver <tt>self</tt>.
#
# ---
# * GSL::MultiRoot::FSolver#dx
# * GSL::MultiRoot::FdfSolver#dx
#
#   These method return the last step <tt>dx</tt> (Vector) taken by the solver <tt>self</tt>.
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="5] Search Stopping Parameters
# ---
# * GSL::MultiRoot::FSolver#test_delta(epsabs, epsrel)
# * GSL::MultiRoot::FdfSolver#test_delta(epsabs, epsrel)
#
#   This method tests for the convergence of the sequence by comparing the last step
#   <tt>dx</tt> with the absolute error <tt>epsabs</tt> and relative error <tt>epsrel</tt>
#   to the current position <tt>x</tt>.
#   The test returns <tt>GSL::SUCCESS</tt> if the following condition is achieved,
#     |dx_i| < epsabs + epsrel |x_i|
#   for each component of <tt>x</tt> and returns <tt>GSL::CONTINUE</tt> otherwise.
#
# ---
# * GSL::MultiRoot::FSolver#test_residual(epsabs)
# * GSL::MultiRoot::FdfSolver#test_residual(epsabs)
#
#   This method tests the residual value <tt>f</tt> against the absolute error
#   bound <tt>epsabs</tt>. The test returns <tt>GSL::SUCCESS</tt> if the following
#   condition is achieved,
#      sum_i |f_i| < epsabs
#   and returns <tt>GSL::CONTINUE</tt> otherwise. This criterion is suitable for
#   situations where the precise location of the root, <tt>x</tt>, is unimportant
#   provided a value can be found where the residual is small enough.
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="6] Higher Level Interface
# ---
# * GSL::MultiRoot::Function#solve(x0, max_iter = 1000, eps = 1e-7, type = "hybrids")
# * GSL::MultiRoot::FSolver#solve(max_iter = 1000, eps = 1e-7)
# * GSL::MultiRoot::FSolver.solve(fsolver, max_iter = 1000, eps = 1e-7)
#
# See sample script <tt>examples/multiroot/fsolver3.rb</tt>.
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="7] Example
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="7.1] FSolver
#
#      proc = Proc.new { |x, params, f|
#        a = params[0];  b = params[1]
#        x0 = x[0];  x1 = x[1]
#        f[0] = a*(1 - x0)
#        f[1] = b*(x1 - x0*x0)
#      }
#
#      params = [1.0, 10.0]
#      func = MultiRoot::Function.alloc(proc, 2, params)
#
#      fsolver = MultiRoot::FSolver.alloc("hybrid", 2)
#      x = [-10, -5]
#      fsolver.set(func, x)
#
#      iter = 0
#      begin
#        iter += 1
#        status = fsolver.iterate
#        root = fsolver.root
#        f = fsolver.f
#        printf("iter = %3u x = % .3f % .3f f(x) = % .3e % .3e\n",
#                iter, root[0], root[1], f[0], f[1])
#        status = fsolver.test_residual(1e-7)
#      end while status == GSL::CONTINUE and iter < 1000
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="7.2] FdfSolver
#      n = 2
#
#      procf = Proc.new { |x, params, f|
#        a = params[0]; b = params[1]
#        x0 = x[0]; x1 = x[1]
#        f[0] = a*(1 - x0)
#        f[1] = b*(x1 - x0*x0)
#      }
#
#      procdf = Proc.new { |x, params, jac|
#        a = params[0]; b = params[1]
#        jac.set(0, 0, -a)
#        jac.set(0, 1, 0)
#        jac.set(1, 0, -2*b*x[0])
#        jac.set(1, 1, b)
#      }
#
#      params = [1.0, 10.0]
#      f = MultiRoot::Function_fdf.alloc(procf, procdf, n, params)
#
#      fdfsolver = MultiRoot::FdfSolver.alloc("gnewton", n)
#
#      x = [-10.0, -5.0]
#
#      fdfsolver.set(f, x)
#
#      iter = 0
#      begin
#        iter += 1
#        status = fdfsolver.iterate
#        root = fdfsolver.root
#        f = fdfsolver.f
#        printf("iter = %3u x = % .3f % .3f f(x) = % .3e % .3e\n",
#                iter, root[0], root[1], f[0], f[1])
#        status = fdfsolver.test_residual(1e-7)
#      end while status == GSL::CONTINUE and iter < 1000
#
# {prev}[link:rdoc/min_rdoc.html]
# {next}[link:rdoc/multimin_rdoc.html]
#
# {Reference index}[link:rdoc/ref_rdoc.html]
# {top}[link:index.html]
#
#
