#
# = Permutations
# Contents:
# 1. {Permuation allocations}[link:rdoc/perm_rdoc.html#1]
# 1. {Methods}[link:rdoc/perm_rdoc.html#2]
#    1. {Accessing permutation elements}[link:rdoc/perm_rdoc.html#2.1]
#    1. {Permuation properties}[link:rdoc/perm_rdoc.html#2.2]
#    1. {Permuation functions}[link:rdoc/perm_rdoc.html#2.3]
#    1. {Reading and writing permutations}[link:rdoc/perm_rdoc.html#2.4]
# 1. {Permutations in cyclic form}[link:rdoc/perm_rdoc.html#2.5]
# 1. {Applying Permutations}[link:rdoc/perm_rdoc.html#3]
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="1] Permuation allocations
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation.alloc(n)
#
#   These functions create a new permutation of size <tt>n</tt>. 
#   The permutation is not initialized and its elements are undefined. 
#   Use <tt>GSL::Permutation.calloc</tt> if you want to create a permutation 
#   which is initialized to the identity. 
#
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation.calloc(n)
#
#   This creates a new permutation of size <tt>n</tt> and initializes it to the identity. 
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="2] Methods
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation#init()
#
#   This initializes the permutation to the identity, i.e. (0,1,2,...,n-1). 
#
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation.memcpy(dest, src)
#
#   This method copies the elements of the permutation <tt>src</tt> 
#   into the permutation <tt>dest</tt>. The two permutations must have the same size.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation#clone
#
#   This creates a new permutation with the same elements of <tt>self</tt>.
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="2.1] Accessing permutation elements
#
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation#get(i)
#
#   Returns the value of the <tt>i</tt>-th element of the permutation. 
#
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation#swap(i, j)
#
#   This exchanges the <tt>i</tt>-th and <tt>j</tt>-th elements of the permutation.
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="2.2] Permutation properties
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation#size
#
#   Returns the size of the permutation.
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation#valid
#
#   This checks that the permutation <tt>self</tt> is valid. 
#   The n elements should contain each of the numbers 0 .. n-1 once and only once.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation#valid?
#
#   This returns true if the permutation <tt>self</tt> is valid, and false otherwise.
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="2.3] Permutation functions
#
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation#reverse
#
#   This reverses the elements of the permutation <tt>self</tt>.
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation#inverse
#
#   This computes the inverse of the permutation <tt>self</tt>, and returns
#   as a new permutation.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation#next
#
#   This method advances the permutation <tt>self</tt> to the next permutation in 
#   lexicographic order and returns <tt>GSL::SUCCESS</tt>. If no further permutations 
#   are available it returns <tt>GSL::FAILURE</tt> and leaves <tt>self</tt> unmodified. 
#   Starting with the identity permutation and repeatedly applying this function 
#   will iterate through all possible permutations of a given order.
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation#prev
#
#   This method steps backwards from the permutation <tt>self</tt> to the previous 
#   permutation in lexicographic order, returning <tt>GSL_SUCCESS</tt>. 
#   If no previous permutation is available it returns <tt>GSL_FAILURE</tt> 
#   and leaves <tt>self</tt> unmodified.
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="2.4] Reading and writing permutations
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation#fwrite(io)
# * GSL::Permutation#fwrite(filename)
# * GSL::Permutation#fread(io)
# * GSL::Permutation#fread(filename)
# * GSL::Permutation#fprintf(io, format = "%u\n")
# * GSL::Permutation#fprintf(filename, format = "%u\n")
# * GSL::Permutation#fscanf(io)
# * GSL::Permutation#fscanf(filename)
#
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="2.5] Permutations in cyclic Form
# A permutation can be represented in both <tt>linear</tt> and 
# <tt>cyclic</tt> notations. The functions described in this section convert 
# between the two forms. The linear notation is an index mapping, and has 
# already been described above. The cyclic notation expresses a 
# permutation as a series of circular rearrangements of groups 
# of elements, or <tt>cycles</tt>. 
#
# For example, under the cycle (1 2 3), 1 is replaced by 2, 2 is replaced 
# by 3 and 3 is replaced by 1 in a circular fashion. Cycles of different 
# sets of elements can be combined independently, for example (1 2 3) (4 5) 
# combines the cycle (1 2 3) with the cycle (4 5), which is an exchange of 
# elements 4 and 5. A cycle of length one represents an element which is 
# unchanged by the permutation and is referred to as a <tt>singleton</tt>. 
#
# It can be shown that every permutation can be decomposed into combinations 
# of cycles. The decomposition is not unique, but can always be rearranged 
# into a standard <tt>canonical form</tt> by a reordering of elements. 
# The library uses the canonical form defined in Knuth's 
# <tt>Art of Computer Programming</tt> (Vol 1, 3rd Ed, 1997) Section 1.3.3, p.178. 
#
# The procedure for obtaining the canonical form given by Knuth is, 
#
#
# 1. Write all singleton cycles explicitly 
# 1. Within each cycle, put the smallest number first 
# 1. Order the cycles in decreasing order of the first number in the cycle. 
#
# For example, the linear representation (2 4 3 0 1) is represented as 
# (1 4) (0 2 3) in canonical form. The permutation corresponds to an 
# exchange of elements 1 and 4, and rotation of elements 0, 2 and 3. 
#
# The important property of the canonical form is that it can be reconstructed 
# from the contents of each cycle without the brackets. In addition, by removing 
# the brackets it can be considered as a linear representation of a different 
# permutation. In the example given above the permutation (2 4 3 0 1) would 
# become (1 4 0 2 3). This mapping has many applications in the theory of 
# permutations. 
#
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation#linear_to_canonical
# * GSL::Permutation#to_canonical
#
#   Computes the canonical form of the permutation <tt>self</tt> and 
#   returns it as a new <tt>GSL::Permutation</tt>.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation#canonical_to_linear
# * GSL::Permutation#to_linear
#
#   Converts a permutation <tt>self</tt> in canonical form back into linear 
#   form and returns it as a new <tt>GSL::Permutation</tt>.
#
#
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation#inversions
#
#   Counts the number of inversions in the permutation <tt>self</tt>. 
#   An inversion is any pair of elements that are not in order. 
#   For example, the permutation 2031 has three inversions, corresponding
#   to the pairs (2,0) (2,1) and (3,1). 
#   The identity permutation has no inversions. 
#
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation#linear_cycles
#
#   Counts the number of cycles in the permutation <tt>self</tt>, 
#   given in linear form. 
#
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation#canonical_cycles
#
#   Counts the number of cycles in the permutation <tt>self</tt>, 
#   given in canonical form. 
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="3] Applying Permutations
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation::permute(v)
#
#   Applies the permutation <tt>self</tt> to the elements of the vector <tt>v</tt>, 
#   considered as a row-vector acted on by a permutation matrix from the 
#   right, v' = v P. The j-th column of the permutation matrix P is 
#   given by the p_j-th column of the identity matrix. 
#   The permutation <tt>self</tt> and the vector <tt>v</tt> must have the same length.
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation::permute_inverse(v)
#
#   Applies the inverse of the permutation <tt>self</tt> to the elements of 
#   the vector <tt>v</tt>, considered as a row-vector acted on by an inverse 
#   permutation matrix from the right, v' = v P^T. 
#   Note that for permutation matrices the inverse is the same as the 
#   transpose. The j-th column of the permutation matrix P is given by 
#   the p_j-th column of the identity matrix. 
#   The permutation <tt>self</tt> and the vector <tt>v</tt> must have the same length.
# ---
# * GSL::Permutation.mul(pa, pb)
#
#   Combines the two permutations <tt>pa</tt> and <tt>pb</tt> into a single 
#   permutation <tt>p</tt> and returns it. 
#   The permutation <tt>p</tt> is equivalent to applying <tt>pb</tt> first 
#   and then <tt>pa</tt>. 
#
#
# {prev}[link:rdoc/matrix_rdoc.html]
# {next}[link:rdoc/combi_rdoc.html]
#
# {Reference index}[link:rdoc/ref_rdoc.html]
# {top}[link:index.html]
#
#
