#
# = Random Number Generation
# The library provides a large collection of random number generators which 
# can be accessed through a uniform interface. Environment variables allow you 
# to select different generators and seeds at runtime, so that you can easily 
# switch between generators without needing to recompile your program. 
# Each instance of a generator keeps track of its own state, allowing the 
# generators to be used in multi-threaded programs. Additional functions are 
# available for transforming uniform random numbers into samples from 
# continuous or discrete probability distributions such as the Gaussian, 
# log-normal or Poisson distributions. 
#
#
#
# Contents:
# 1. {General comments on random numbers}[link:rdoc/rng_rdoc.html#1]
# 1. {The Random Number Generator Interface: GSL::Rng class}[link:rdoc/rng_rdoc.html#2]
# 1. {Random number generator initialization}[link:rdoc/rng_rdoc.html#3]
# 1. {Sampling from a random number generator}[link:rdoc/rng_rdoc.html#4]
# 1. {Auxiliary random number generator functions}[link:rdoc/rng_rdoc.html#5]
# 1. {Random number environment variables}[link:rdoc/rng_rdoc.html#6]
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="1] General comments on random numbers
# In 1988, Park and Miller wrote a paper entitled "Random number generators: 
# good ones are hard to find." [Commun. ACM, 31, 1192-1201]. Fortunately, some
# excellent random number generators are available, though poor ones are still 
# in common use. You may be happy with the system-supplied random number 
# generator on your computer, but you should be aware that as computers get 
# faster, requirements on random number generators increase. Nowadays, a 
# simulation that calls a random number generator millions of times can often 
# finish before you can make it down the hall to the coffee machine and back. 
#
# A very nice review of random number generators was written by Pierre L'Ecuyer, 
# as Chapter 4 of the book: Handbook on Simulation, Jerry Banks, ed.
# (Wiley, 1997). The chapter is available in postscript from L'Ecuyer's 
# ftp site (see references). Knuth's volume on Seminumerical Algorithms 
# (originally published in 1968) devotes 170 pages to random number generators,
# and has recently been updated in its 3rd edition (1997). It is brilliant, 
# a classic. If you don't own it, you should stop reading right now, run to the 
# nearest bookstore, and buy it. 
#
# A good random number generator will satisfy both theoretical and statistical 
# properties. Theoretical properties are often hard to obtain (they require real 
# math!), but one prefers a random number generator with a long period, 
# low serial correlation, and a tendency not to "fall mainly on the planes." 
# Statistical tests are performed with numerical simulations. Generally,
# a random number generator is used to estimate some quantity for which the 
# theory of probability provides an exact answer. Comparison to this exact 
# answer provides a measure of "randomness". 
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="2] The Random Number Generator Interface 
# It is important to remember that a random number generator is not a "real" 
# function like sine or cosine. Unlike real functions, successive calls to a 
# random number generator yield different return values. Of course that is just 
# what you want for a random number generator, but to achieve this effect, 
# the generator must keep track of some kind of "state" variable. Sometimes this 
# state is just an integer (sometimes just the value of the previously generated 
# random number), but often it is more complicated than that and may involve a 
# whole array of numbers, possibly with some indices thrown in. To use the 
# random number generators, you do not need to know the details of what 
# comprises the state, and besides that varies from algorithm to algorithm. 
#
# The random number generator library uses <tt>GSL::Rng</tt> class for the interface.
# == {}[link:index.html"name="3] Random number generator initialization 
#
# ---
# * GSL::Rng.alloc(rng_type[, seed])
#
#   This method returns a GSL::Rng object of a random number generator of type 
#   <tt>rng_type</tt> with a seed <tt>seed</tt>. These two arguments can be omitted, 
#   and the generator 'gsl_rng_mt19937' and a seed 0 are used as defaults.
#   The GSL library provides a number of random number generator types, 
#   and one can choose with a constant <tt>GSL::RNG_xxx</tt> or a String, as
#
#   * <tt>GSL::Rng::MT19937</tt> or <tt>"gsl_rng_mt19937"</tt> or <tt>"mt19937"</tt>
#   * <tt>GSL::Rng::RANLXS0</tt>  or <tt>"gsl_rng_ranlsx0"</tt>  or <tt>"ranlxs0"</tt> 
#   * <tt>GSL::Rng::ZUF</tt>  or <tt>"gsl_rng_zuf"</tt>  or <tt>"zuf"</tt> 
#   * ...
#
#   See the {GSL reference manual}[http://www.gnu.org/software/gsl/manual/html_node/Random-number-generator-algorithms.html#Random-number-generator-algorithms"target="_top] for the complete list. 
#   The following demonstrates how to use this class,
#
#     require 'gsl'
#
#     r = Rng.alloc(Rng::TAUS, 1)
#     r2 = Rng.alloc("ran0", 2)
#     p r.name                <- "taus"
#     p r.get                 <- get an integer
#     p r2.uniform            <- get a float of [0, 1)
#
#   A generator of the type <tt>gsl_rng_taus</tt> is created with seed 1,
#   and <tt>gsl_rng_ran0</tt> with seed 2. The
#   method <tt>get</tt> returns a random integer. 
#   The method <tt>uniform</tt> returns
#   a floating number uniformly distributed in the range [0, 1).
#
#   If the package {rngextra}[http://www.network-theory.co.uk/download/rngextra/"target="_top] is installed, additional
#   two generators are available, 
#   * <tt>GSL::Rng::RNGEXTRA_RNG1</tt>, <tt>"rngextra_rng1"</tt>
#   * <tt>GSL::Rng::RNGEXTRA_RNG2</tt>, <tt>"rngextra_rng2"</tt>
#
#   They are created as
#
#     r1 = Rng.alloc(Rng::RNGEXTRA_RNG1)
#     p r1.name                <- "rng1"
#
#     r2 = Rng.alloc("rngextra_rng2")
#     p r2.name                <- "rng2"
#
# ---
# * GSL::Rng.default_seed
#
#   Returns the default seed
# ---
# * GSL::Rng.set_default_seed(seed)
# * GSL::Rng.default_seed=(seed)
#
#   Override the default seed by <tt>seed</tt>.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Rng.types_setup()
#
#   Returns an array of all the available generators' names. 
#
# ---
# * GSK::Rng.memcpy(dest, src)
#
#   Copies the random number generator <tt>src</tt>) into the pre-existing generator 
#   <tt>dest</tt>, making dest into an exact copy of <tt>src</tt>. 
#   The two generators must be of the same type.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Rng#set(s)
#
#   This method initializes the random number generator with a given seed <tt>s</tt>.
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="4] Sampling from a random number generator
#
# ---
# * GSL::Rng#get
#
#   This returns a random integer from the reciever generator.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Rng#uniform
#
#   This method returns a double precision floating point number uniformly 
#   distributed in the range [0,1). 
#
# ---
# * GSL::Rng#uniform_pos
#
#   This returns a positive double precision floating point number uniformly 
#   distributed in the range (0,1), excluding both 0.0 and 1.0.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Rng#uniform_int(n)
#
#   This method returns a random integer from 0 to n-1 inclusive. 
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="5] Auxiliary random number generator functions
#
# ---
# * GSL::Rng#name
#
#   This method returns a Sting object of the name of the generator.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Rng#max
# * GSL::Rng#min
#
#   These method return the largest/smallest value that the method 
#   <tt>get</tt> can return. 
#
# ---
# * GSL::Rng#clone
# * GSL::Rng#duplicate
#
#   Return a newly created generator which is an exact copy of the generator <tt>self</tt>.
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="6] Random number environment variables 
# The library allows you to choose a default generator and seed from the 
# environment variables <tt>GSL_RNG_TYPE</tt> and <tt>GSL_RNG_SEED</tt> 
# and the method <tt>GSL::Rng::env_setup</tt>. 
#
# ---
# * GSL::Rng.env_setup()
#
#   Reads the environment variables <tt>GSL_RNG_TYPE</tt> and 
#   <tt>GSL_RNG_SEED</tt> and uses their values to set the corresponding 
#   library variables.
#
#   If you don't specify a generator for <tt>GSL_RNG_TYPE</tt> 
#   then "mt19937" is used as the default. 
#   The initial value of the default seed is zero. 
#
#
# {prev}[link:rdoc/integration_rdoc.html]
# {next}[link:rdoc/qrng_rdoc.html]
#
# {Reference index}[link:rdoc/ref_rdoc.html]
# {top}[link:index.html]
#
