#
# = One dimensional root-finding and the solver classes
# One-dimensional root finding algorithms can be divided into two classes, 
# <tt>root bracketing</tt> and <tt>root polishing</tt>. The state for bracketing solvers 
# is held in a <tt>GSL::Root::FSolver</tt> object. The updating procedure uses only 
# function evaluations (not derivatives). The state for root polishing solvers is 
# held in a <tt>GSL::Root::FdfSolver</tt> object. The updates require both the function 
# and its derivative (hence the name fdf) to be supplied by the user.
#
# Contents:
# 1. {Solver classes}[link:rdoc/roots_rdoc.html#1]
# 1. {Methods}[link:rdoc/roots_rdoc.html#2]
#    1. {Methods to solve equations}[link:rdoc/roots_rdoc.html#2.1]
#    1. {GSL::Function_fdf class: Providing the function to solve}[link:rdoc/roots_rdoc.html#2.2]
#    1. {Search Stopping Parameters}[link:rdoc/roots_rdoc.html#2.3]
# 1. {Higher-level interface}[link:rdoc/roots_rdoc.html#3]
# 1. {Example}[link:rdoc/roots_rdoc.html#4]
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="1] Solver classes
#
# ---
# * GSL::Root::FSolver.alloc(T)
#
#   This creates a equation solver with a root bracketing algorithm of type <tt>T</tt>. 
#   The type <tt>T</tt> is given by a String or a constant,
#   * <tt>"bisection"</tt> or <tt>GSL::Root::FSolver::BISECION</tt>
#   * <tt>"falsepos"</tt> or <tt>GSL::Root::FSolver::FALSEPOS</tt>
#   * <tt>"brent"</tt> or <tt>GSL::Root::FSolver::BRENT</tt>.
#
#   * Ex:
#        include GSL::Root
#        s1 = FSolver.alloc("bisection")
#        s2 = FSolver.alloc("brent")
#        s3 = FSolver.alloc(FSolver::BISECTION)
#        s4 = FSolver.alloc(FSolver::BRENT)
#
# ---
# * GSL::Root::FdfSolver.alloc(T)
#
#   This creates a derivative-based solver of type <tt>T</tt>. 
#   The type <tt>T</tt> is given by a String or a constant,
#   * <tt>"newton"</tt> or <tt>GSL::Root::FdfSolver::NEWTON</tt>
#   * <tt>"secant"</tt> or <tt>GSL::Root::FdfSolver::SECANT</tt>
#   * <tt>"steffenson"</tt> or <tt>GSL::Root::FdfSolver::STEFFENSON</tt>.
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="2] Methods
#
# ---
# * GSL::Root::FSolver#set(f, xl, xu)
#
#   This initialize the solver <tt>self</tt> to use the function <tt>f</tt>, 
#   and the initial search 
#   interval <tt>xl, xu</tt>. The function to be solved <tt>f</tt> is given 
#   an instanse of the {GSL::Function}[link:rdoc/function_rdoc.html] class.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Root::FdfSolver#set(fdf, r)
#
#   This initializes, or reinitializes, an existing solver <tt>self</tt> 
#   to use the function and derivative <tt>fdf</tt> and the initial guess <tt>r</tt>.
#   Here <tt>fdf</tt> is a <tt>GSL::Function_fdf</tt> object (see below).
#
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="2.1] Methods to solve equations
#
# ---
# * GSL::Root::FSolver#iterate
# * GSL::Root::FdfSolver#iterate
#
#   This performs a single iteration of the solver. If the iteration encounters an unexpected problem then an error code will be returned ( <tt>GSL::EBADFUNC</tt> or 
#   <tt>GSL::EZERODIV</tt> ).
#
# ---
# * GSL::Root::FSolver#root
# * GSL::Root::FdfSolver#root
#
#   Returns the current estimate of the root.
#
#
# ---
# * GSL::Root::FSolver#name
# * GSL::Root::FdfSolver#name
#
#   This returns the name of the algorithm.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Root::FSolver#x_lower
# * GSL::Root::FSolver#x_upper
#
#   Return the current bracketing interval for the solver.
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="2.2] GSL::Function_fdf class: Providing the function to solve
# The <tt>FSolver</tt> object require an instance of the 
# {GSL::Function}[link:rdoc/function_rdoc.html] class, which is already introduced elsewhere.
# The <tt>FdfSolver</tt> which uses the root-polishing algorithm requires not only
# the function to solve, but also
# procedures to calculate the derivatives. This is
# given by the <tt>GSL::Function_fdf</tt> class.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Function_fdf.alloc()
# * GSL::Function_fdf.alloc(f, df)
# * GSL::Function_fdf.alloc(f, df, fdf)
#
#   Constructors. Here <tt>f, df</tt> are Ruby <tt>Proc</tt> objects which return a single value.
#   The option <tt>fdf</tt> must return an array which contain the values of the function 
#   and its derivative.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Function_fdf#set(f, df)
# * GSL::Function_fdf#set(f, df, fdf)
#
#   This initializes or reinitializes the <tt>Function_fdf</tt> object <tt>self</tt> by
#   two or three <tt>Proc</tt> objects <tt>f, df</tt> and <tt>fdf</tt>.
#   
#   * ex: A quadratic equation a*x*x + b*x + c = 0:
#
#       # Returns a value of the function
#       f = Proc.new { |x, params| 
#         a = params[0]; b = params[1]; c = params[2]
#         (a*x + b)*x + c
#       }
#       # Calculate the derivative
#       df = Proc.new { |x, params| 
#         a = params[0]; b = params[1]
#         2*a*x + b
#       }
#
#       function_fdf = Function_fdf.alloc(f, df)
#
# ---
# * GSL::Function_fdf#set(f, df, params...)
# * GSL::Function_fdf#set(f, df, fdf, params...)
#
#   This sets or resets the procedures and the constant parameters in the function.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Function_fdf#set_params(...)
#
#   This sets or resets the constant parameters in the function.
#
#   * Ex: x*x - 5 == 0
#       
#       function_fdf.set_params([1, 0, -5])
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="2.3] Search Stopping Parameters
#
# ---
# * GSL::Root::test_interval(xl, xu, epsrel, epsabs)
#
#   This function tests for the convergence of the interval 
#   <tt>[xl, xu]</tt> with absolute error <tt>epsabs</tt> and relative error <tt>epsrel</tt>. 
#   The test returns <tt>GSL::SUCCESS</tt> if the following condition is achieved,
#     |a - b| < epsabs + epsrel min(|a|,|b|) 
#   when the interval x = [a,b] does not include the origin. If the interval includes 
#   the origin then min(|a|,|b|) is replaced by zero (which is the minimum value of 
#   |x| over the interval). This ensures that the relative error is accurately 
#   estimated for roots close to the origin.
#
#   This condition on the interval also implies that any estimate of the root r in 
#   the interval satisfies the same condition with respect to the true root r0,
#
#     |r - r0| < epsabs + epsrel r0
#
#   assuming that the true root r0 is contained within the interval.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Root::test_delta(x1, x0, epsrel, epsabs)
#
#   This function tests for the convergence of the sequence ..., <tt>x0, x1</tt> with 
#   absolute error <tt>epsabs</tt> and relative error <tt>epsrel</tt>. 
#   The test returns <tt>GSL::SUCCESS</tt> if the following condition is achieved,
#     |x_1 - x_0| < epsabs + epsrel |x_1|
#   and returns <tt>GSL::CONTINUE</tt> otherwise.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Root::test_residual(f, epsabs)
#
#   This function tests the residual value <tt>f</tt> against the absolute error bound 
#   <tt>epsabs</tt>. The test returns <tt>GSL::SUCCESS</tt> if the following condition is 
#   achieved,
#     |f| < epsabs
#   and returns <tt>GSL::CONTINUE</tt> otherwise. This criterion is suitable for 
#   situations where the precise location of the root, x, is unimportant provided a 
#   value can be found where the residual, |f(x)|, is small enough.
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="3] High-level interface
# ---
# * GSL::Root:FSolver.solve(func, [xl, xu], [epsabs = 0, epsrel = 1e-6])
#
#   This method try to find a root of the function <tt>func</tt> between the interval
#   <tt>[xl, xu]</tt>, with the accuracy <tt>[epsabs, epsrel]</tt> (optional). An array
#   of 3 elements is returned, as [<tt>root, iterations, status</tt>].
#
# ---
# * GSL::Root:FdfSolver.solve(func, x0, [epsabs = 0, epsrel = 1e-6])
#
#   This method try to find a root of the function <tt>func</tt> around <tt>x0</tt>,
#   with the accuracy <tt>[epsabs, epsrel]</tt> (optional).
#   An array of 3 elements is returned, as [<tt>root, iterations, status</tt>].
#
# ---
# * GSL::Function#fsolve([xl, xu])
# * GSL::Function#fsolve(xl, xu)
#
#   These methods try to find a root of <tt>f(x) = 0</tt> between the interval
#   <tt>[xl, xh]</tt> using Brent's algorithm.
#   An array of 3 elements is returned, as [<tt>root, iterations, status</tt>].
#
#   * ex:
#       f = Function.alloc { |x| x*x - 5 }
#       f.fsolve([0, 5])             <----- 2.23606797749979
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="4] Example
# This example is equivalent to the one found in the GSL manual, 
# using the Brent's algorithm to solve the equation x^2 - 5 = 0.
#
#   #!/usr/bin/env ruby
#   require "gsl"
#
#   #solver = Root::FSolver.alloc("bisection")
#   #solver = Root::FSolver.alloc("falsepos")
#   solver = Root::FSolver.alloc(Root::FSolver::BRENT)
#   puts "using #{solver.name} method"
#
#   func = GSL::Function.alloc { |x, params|      # Define a function to solve
#     a = params[0]; b = params[1]; c = params[2]
#     (a*x + b)*x + c
#   }
#   expected = Math::sqrt(5.0)
#
#   func.set_params([1, 0, -5])
#
#   printf("%5s [%9s, %9s] %9s %10s %9s\n",
#           "iter", "lower", "upper", "root", 
#           "err", "err(est)")
#
#   solver.set(func, 0.0, 5.0)              # initialize the solver
#   i = 1
#   begin
#     status = solver.iterate
#     r = solver.root
#     xl = solver.x_lower
#     xu = solver.x_upper
#     status = Root.test_interval(xl, xu, 0, 0.001)   # Check convergence
#     if status == GSL::SUCCESS
#       printf("Converged:\n")
#     end
#     printf("%5d [%.7f, %.7f] %.7f %+.7f %.7f\n",
#            i, xl, xu, r, r - expected, xu - xl)
#
#     i += 1
#   end while status != GSL::SUCCESS
#
# The following is an another version, using the <tt>FdfSolver</tt> with the Newton-Raphson 
# algorithm.
#
#      #!/usr/bin/env ruby
#      require "gsl"
#
#      f = Proc.new { |x, params| 
#        a = params[0]; b = params[1]; c = params[2]
#        (a*x + b)*x + c
#      }
#
#      df = Proc.new { |x, params| 
#        a = params[0]; b = params[1]
#        2.0*a*x + b
#      }
#
#      function_fdf = Function_fdf.alloc(f, df)
#      params = [1, 0, -5]
#      function_fdf.set_params(params)
#
#      solver = Root::FdfSolver.alloc(Root::FdfSolver::NEWTON)
#      puts "using #{solver.name} method"
#
#      expected = Math::sqrt(5.0)
#      x = 5.0
#      solver.set(function_fdf, x)
#
#      printf("%-5s %10s %10s %10s\n", "iter", "root", "err", "err(est)")
#      iter = 0
#      begin
#        iter += 1
#        status = solver.iterate
#        x0 = x
#        x = solver.root
#
#        status = Root::test_delta(x, x0, 0, 1e-3)
#        
#        if status == GSL::SUCCESS
#          printf("Converged:\n")
#        end
#
#        printf("%5d %10.7f %+10.7f %10.7f\n", iter, x, x - expected, x - x0)
#      end while status != GSL::SUCCESS
#
# {prev}[link:rdoc/dht_rdoc.html]
# {next}[link:rdoc/min_rdoc.html]
#
# {Reference index}[link:rdoc/ref_rdoc.html]
# {top}[link:index.html]
#
#
