#
# = Sorting
# Contents:
# 1. {Heapsort of vectors}[link:rdoc/sort_rdoc.html#1]
# 1. {Sorting vectors}[link:rdoc/sort_rdoc.html#2]
# 1. {Selecting the k smallest or largest elements}[link:rdoc/sort_rdoc.html#3]
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="1] Heapsort
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector#heapsort
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#heapsort
# * GSL.heapsort(v)
#
#   These method sort the elements of the vector <tt>self</tt>
#   using the comparison function given by a block, and return the result
#   as a new vector object. The vector <tt>self</tt> is not changed.
#
#   Example: Sorting a complex vector in ascending order by magnitudes.
#
#       p v.heapsort { |a, b|
#         a.abs <=> b.abs
#       }
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector#heapsort!
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#heapsort!
# * GSL.heapsort!(v)
#
#   These method sort the elements of the vector <tt>self</tt> in-place.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector#heapsort_index
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#heapsort_index
# * GSL.heapsort_index(v)
#
#   These method indirectly sort the elements of the vector <tt>self</tt>
#   using the comparison
#   function given by a block, and return the result
#   as a permutation object. The vector itself is not changed.
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="2] Sorting vectors
# ---
# * GSL::Vector#sort!
#
#   This method sorts the elements of the vector <tt>self</tt> into
#   ascending numerical order. The vector itself is changed.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector#sort
#
#   This returns a new vector whose elements are sorted into ascending
#   numerical order. The vector <tt>self</tt> is not changed.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector#sort_index
#
#   This method indirectly sorts the elements of the vector <tt>self</tt>
#   into ascending order,
#   and returns the result as a <tt>GSL::Permutation</tt> object.
#   The elements of the returned permutation give the index of the vector
#   element which would
#   have been stored in that position if the vector had been sorted in place.
#   The first element of the permutation gives the index of the least element
#   in <tt>self</tt>,  and the last element of the permutation gives the index
#   of the greatest element in
#   <tt>self</tt>. The vector <tt>self</tt> is not changed.
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="3] Selecting the k smallest or largest elements
# ---
# * GSL::Vector#sort_smallest(k)
# * GSL::Vector#sort_largest(k)
#
#   These functions return a new vector of the <tt>k</tt> smallest or
#   largest elements  of the vector <tt>self</tt>.
#   The argument <tt>k</tt> must be less than or equal to the length
#   of the vector <tt>self</tt>.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector#sort_smallest_index(k)
# * GSL::Vector#sort_largest_index(k)
#
#   These functions return a new <tt>GSL::Permutation</tt> object of the indices of the
#   <tt>k</tt> smallest or largest elements of the vector <tt>self</tt>.
#   <tt>k</tt> must be less than or equal to the length of the vector.
#
#
# {prev}[link:rdoc/combi_rdoc.html]
# {next}[link:rdoc/blas_rdoc.html]
#
# {Reference index}[link:rdoc/ref_rdoc.html]
# {top}[link:index.html]
#
#
