#
# = GSL::Vector::Complex
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="1] Class methods
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex.alloc(size)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex.alloc(re, im)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex.alloc(z0, z1, z2, ...)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex.alloc( ... )
# * GSL::Vector::Complex[ ... ]
#
#   Constructors.
#
# 1. With two (real) vectors:
#         >> re = Vector[0..3]
#         >> im = Vector[5..8]
#         >> z = Vector::Complex[re, im]
#         [ [0.000e+00 5.000e+00] [1.000e+00 6.000e+00] [2.000e+00 7.000e+00] [3.000e+00 8.000e+00] ]
#
# 1. With arrays
#         >> z = Vector::Complex.alloc([0, 1], [2, 5], [-3, 4])
#         [ [0.000e+00 1.000e+00] [2.000e+00 5.000e+00] [-3.000e+00 4.000e+00] ]
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex.calloc(n)
#
#   Creates a complex vector of length <tt>n</tt> and initializes all 
#   the elements of the vector to zero.
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="2] Instance methods
# === {}[link:index.html"name="2.1] Accessing vector elements
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#get(args)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#[args]
#
#   Returns elements(s) of the complex vector <tt>self</tt> if <tt>args</tt> is a
#   single Fixnum, a single Array of Fixnums, or a single GSL::Permutation (or
#   GSL::Index).  For all other <tt>args</tt>, the parameters are treated as
#   with <tt>Vector#subvector</tt> and a <tt>Vector::View</tt> is returned.
#
#   Example:
#     >> z
#     [ [0.000e+00 1.000e+00] [2.000e+00 5.000e+00] [-3.000e+00 4.000e+00] ]
#     => #<GSL::Vector::Complex:0x6c5b9c>
#     >> z[1]
#     => GSL::Complex
#     [ 2.000000 5.000000 ]
#     >> z[-1]
#     => GSL::Complex
#     [ -3.000000 4.000000 ]
#     >> z[0, 2]
#     [ [0.000e+00 1.000e+00] [-3.000e+00 4.000e+00] ]
#     => #<GSL::Vector::Complex:0x6bfbac>
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#set(args, val)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#[args]=val
#
#   If <tt>args</tt> is empty, behaves as <tt>#set_all</tt> and <tt>val</tt> must be a
#   <tt>[re,im]</tt> <tt>Array</tt>, <tt>Float</tt>, <tt>Integer</tt>, or
#   <tt>GSL::Complex</tt>.
#
#   If <tt>args</tt> is a single <tt>Fixnum</tt>, <tt>i</tt>, sets the <tt>i</tt>-th
#   element of the vector <tt>self</tt> to <tt>val</tt>, which must be a
#   <tt>[re,im]</tt> <tt>Array</tt>, <tt>Float</tt>, <tt>Integer</tt>, or
#   <tt>GSL::Complex</tt>.
#
#   All other <tt>args</tt> specify a subvector (as with <tt>#subvector</tt>) whose
#   elements are assigned from <tt>val</tt>.  In this case, <tt>val</tt> can be an
#   <tt>Array</tt>, <tt>Range</tt>, <tt>GSL::Vector::Complex</tt>, or one of the classes
#   listed in the previous cases.
#
#   NOTE: GSL does not provide a vector copy function that properly copies data
#   across overlapping memory regions, so watch out if assigning to part of a
#   Vector from another part of itself (see <tt>#set</tt> example of
#   {GSL::Vector}[link:rdoc/vector_rdoc.html]).
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="2.2] Initializing vector elements
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#set_all(z)
#
#   Sets all the elements of the complex vector <tt>self</tt> to the complex <tt>z</tt>.
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#set_zero
#
#   Sets all the elements of the vector <tt>self</tt> to zero.
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#set_real(x)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#real=(x)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#re=(x)
#
#   Sets the real component of all elements of the vector <tt>self</tt> to
#   <tt>x</tt>.  Currently, <tt>x</tt> must be a scalar, but a future Ruby GSL
#   version could accept a GSL::Vector.
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#set_imag(x)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#imag=(x)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#im=(x)
#
#   Sets the imaginary component of all elements of the vector <tt>self</tt> to
#   <tt>x</tt>.  Currently, <tt>x</tt> must be a scalar, but a future Ruby GSL
#   version could accept a GSL::Vector.
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="2.3] Vector Properties
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#size
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#len
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#length
#
#   Return the vector length.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#stride
#
#   Return the vector stride.
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="2.4] Iterators
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#each
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#each_index
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#collect
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#map
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#collect!
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#map!
#
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="2.5] Reordering Elements
# <tt>GSL::Vector::Complex</tt> provides four methods for shifting the frequency
# domain data between <b>FFT order</b>, shown in the table in the ((<Overview of
# complex data FFTs|URL:fft.html#2.1>)), and <b>natural order</b>, which has the
# most negative freqeuncy component first, the zero frequency component in the
# middle, and the most positive frequency component last.  For more information
# on Ruby/GSL and FFTs, see {Fast Fourier Transforms}[link:rdoc/fft_rdoc.html].
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#fftshift
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#fftshift!
#
#   Shifts the data of <tt>self</tt> from FFT order to natural order.  The
#   <tt>#fftshift</tt> method leaves <tt>self</tt> unmodified and returns a new
#   <tt>GSL::Vector::Complex</tt> object containing the shifted data.  The
#   <tt>#fftshift!</tt> method modifies <tt>self</tt> in-place and returns
#   <tt>self</tt>.  Note that <tt>#fftshift</tt> and <tt>#ifftshift</tt> are equivalent
#   for even lengths, but not for odd lengths.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#ifftshift
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#ifftshift!
#
#   Shifts the data of <tt>self</tt> from natural order to FFT order.  The
#   <tt>#ifftshift</tt> method leaves <tt>self</tt> unmodified and returns a new
#   <tt>GSL::Vector::Complex</tt> object containing the shifted data.  The
#   <tt>#ifftshift!</tt> method modifies <tt>self</tt> in-place and returns
#   <tt>self</tt>.  Note that <tt>#fftshift</tt> and <tt>#ifftshift</tt> are equivalent
#   for even lengths, but not for odd lengths.
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="2.6] Arithmetic
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#+(other)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#-(other)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#*(other)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#/(other)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#add(other)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#sub(other)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#mul(other)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#div(other)
#
#   Returns a new <tt>GSL::Vector::Complex</tt> instance containing the result of
#   the appropriate arithmetic operation on <tt>self</tt> and <tt>other</tt>.  The
#   inputs are unchanged.  The <tt>other</tt> parameter may be a scalar,
#   <tt>{GSL::Vector}[link:rdoc/vector_rdoc.html]</tt>, or <tt>GSL::Vector::Complex</tt>.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#+=(other)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#-=(other)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#*=(other)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#/=(other)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#add!(other)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#sub!(other)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#mul!(other)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#div!(other)
#
#   Modifies <tt>self</tt> in place to contain the result of the appropriate
#   arithmetic operation on <tt>self</tt> and <tt>other</tt>.  The <tt>other</tt>
#   parameter may be a scalar, <tt>{GSL::Vector}[link:rdoc/vector_rdoc.html]</tt>, or
#   <tt>GSL::Vector::Complex</tt>.
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="2.7] Reading and writing vectors
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#fwite(io)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#fread(io)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#fprintf(io, format)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#fscanf(io)
#
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="2.8] Functions
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#conj
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#conjugate
#
#   Returns a new <tt>GSL::Vector::Complex</tt> that is the complex conjugate of
#   <tt>self</tt>.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#conj!
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#conjugate!
#
#   Conjugates <tt>self</tt> in-place and returns <tt>self</tt>.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#arg
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#angle
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#phase
#
#   Calculates the argument (i.e. phase angle in radians) of each of the
#   complex elements of the vector <tt>self</tt> and returns a real vector.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#abs2
#
#   Calculates the squared magnitude of the complex elements of the vector
#   <tt>self</tt> and returns a real vector.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#abs
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#amp
#
#   Calculates the magnitude of the complex elements of the vector <tt>self</tt>
#   and returns a real vector.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#logabs
#
#   Calculates the natural logarithm of the magnitude of the complex elements
#   of the vector <tt>self</tt> and returns a real vector.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#sqrt
#
#   Calculates the square root of the complex elements of the vector <tt>self</tt>
#   and returns a new complex vector.
#
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#exp
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#pow(a)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#log
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#log10
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#log_b(base)
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#sin
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#cos
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#tan
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#sec
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#csc
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#cot
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#arcsin
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#arccos
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#arctan
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#arcsec
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#arccsc
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#arccot
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#sinh
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#cosh
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#tanh
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#sech
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#csch
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#coth
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#arcsinh
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#arccosh
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#arctanh
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#arcsech
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#arccsch
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#arccoth
#
#
# === {}[link:index.html"name="2.9] Statistics
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#sum
#
#   Returns a <tt>GSL::Complex</tt> object representing the sum of all elements of
#   <tt>self</tt>.
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#mean
#
#   Returns a <tt>GSL::Complex</tt> object representing the mean of all elements
#   of <tt>self</tt>.
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#tss
#
#   Returns the total sum of squares about <tt>self.mean</tt>.  This is a real
#   number, i.e. a <tt>Float</tt>.
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#tss_m(mean)
#
#   Returns the total sum of squares about <tt>mean</tt>.  This is a real number,
#   i.e. a <tt>Float.</tt>
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#variance
#
#   Returns the variance of <tt>self</tt>.  This is a real number, i.e. a
#   <tt>Float.</tt>
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#variance_m(mean)
#
#   Returns the variance of <tt>self</tt> around <tt>mean</tt>.  This is a real
#   number, i.e. a <tt>Float</tt>.
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#variance_fm(mean)
#
#   Returns the variance of <tt>self</tt> around the fixed mean <tt>mean</tt>.  This
#   is a real number, i.e. a <tt>Float</tt>.
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#sd
#
#   Returns the standard deviation of <tt>self</tt>.  This is a real number, i.e.
#   a <tt>Float</tt>.
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#sd_m(mean)
#
#   Returns the standard deviation of <tt>self</tt> around <tt>mean</tt>.  This is a
#   real number, i.e. a <tt>Float</tt>.
# ---
# * GSL::Vector::Complex#sd_fm(mean)
#
#   Returns the standard deviation of <tt>self</tt> around the fixed mean
#   <tt>mean</tt>.  This is a real number, i.e. a <tt>Float</tt>.
#
# == {}[link:index.html"name="3] Data Conversions
# ---
# * GSL::Vector#to_complex
# * GSL::Vector#to_complex2
#
#   Create a complex vector from a real vector.
#
#     >> v = Vector[1..4]
#     => GSL::Vector
#     [ 1.000e+00 2.000e+00 3.000e+00 4.000e+00 ]
#     >> v.to_complex
#     [ [1.000e+00 0.000e+00] [2.000e+00 0.000e+00] [3.000e+00 0.000e+00] [4.000e+00 0.000e+00] ]
#     => #<GSL::Vector::Complex:0x6d7d24>
#     >> v.to_complex2
#     [ [1.000e+00 2.000e+00] [3.000e+00 4.000e+00] ]
#     => #<GSL::Vector::Complex:0x6d6424>
#
# {Reference index}[link:rdoc/ref_rdoc.html]
# {top}[link:index.html]
#
#
